No volleyball player is a soloist. They're all parts of a larger orchestra. It's all over the moment even one of them starts to believe he's "special."
- Bernardo Rezende, coach of the Brazil
\h\hmen's national volleyball team,
\h the top-ranked team in the world.
From the book "The People and System that made Brazilian Volleyball the Greatest"
by Yonemushi Noriko (Touhou Publishing)
m 0 0 l 1920 0 1920 1080 0 1080
Move faster!
Jump higher!
More... more...
Give me more!
Why?
Why won't you jump?
We've had it up to here with you,
you egocentric king!
Good morning.
Hey.
It's that hottie. That hottie's here!
Kiyoko, you look lovely today.
Hey, think she might be the team manager?
I love it when she ignores me!
All right. Let's get started.
I'll be on Tsukishima's team.
Are you serious, Captain?!
Relax.
Tanaka's a better attacker than me.
But know that I won't go easy on you guys.
Out of the midget and Tanaka, which one should we target—
er, keep in check first?
Oh, how could I forget?
We'd like to see the King on his knees in defeat too, right?
Keep it down, Tsukki! What if they heard you?
I want them to hear it, dude.
I sure hope they lose their heads.
I see you're quite the ass, Tsukishima.
The lonesome king who lost all of his lackeys, in particular, is a sight for sore eyes.
Goodness gracious me.
Did you hear that?
Can you believe what he just said?
Jeez, that Tsukishima.
He's so...
dead!
The heat flickers
Sweat glitters on my skin
Shouts echo and shoulders hit
We asked the sky through the open window
Haikyuu !!
what our summer would be like
Tell me, Mr. Future
Come on, come on, come on
The chance is there
Do it together
Everybody always wants to stand there,
make mistakes, get angry, and struggle
We'll never give up
We don't want it to end
I will continue on with my imagination
I want to struggle and fall and become stronger
I want to persevere, stand back up, do it again,
and never give up
Let me run
I will run to where my imagination leads me
Episode Four:
The View From the Summit
Take this!
He just destroyed that massive first-year.
He's putting in a lot more power than usual!
Hell yeah!
Stop that, Tanaka.
Tone it down, man.
Keep your shirt on.
Might've been a bad idea to provoke him.
The front!
Got it.
Me too...
Me too!
Hinata!
He's gonna set for me too!
And I'm gonna kick off my first match in high school with a bang—
with my first spike!
Not here too...
There's a massive, massive wall in front of me again.
It really surprised me the other night as well, but boy, you sure can fly.
Now if only you were just thirty centimeters taller,
you could've been a superstar.
He may be huge, but he's only one guy.
O-Once more!
This time, I'll score!
Another block?
Kageyama/Hinata    Tsukishima/Yamaguchi
How many does that make it, now?
Nice, Tsukki.
Tanaka seems to be scoring at will, though.
Nice block, Tsukishima.
Damn it!
Thank you.
He's better than I expected.
Look at you.
Your team keeps getting blocked.
What happened to the King's sets?
You know, the ones opponents can't keep up with.
And the ones teammates can't keep up with, either.
Shut up.
Give us a good serve, Yamaguchi!
S-Sorry, Tsukki.
Don't worry about it.
I don't need fast attacks
to win.
Give 'em the killer serve!
Kageyama's jump serve, huh?
It was pretty overwhelming.
I'm gonna score a bunch of points all at once!
Go!
Ack.
Yamaguchi.
I got this, Tsukki!
Dammit.
Nice set, Tsukki.
Steady receives are Daichi's forte.
Good job, Yamaguchi.
He's an incredible defender.
Were you expecting to score a few points in a row?
I don't have any outstanding talents,
but I've spent two years more than you guys etching this receiving skill into my body.
Don't think it's going down without a fight.
S-So cool!
Come on, King.
Don't you think it's about time you pulled out all the stops?
What's your problem, man?
You keep trying to pick a fight with him.
What the hell is the "King's set"?
Don't you know why he's called the King?
Well, for some reason, he's really good.
The other schools must've gotten scared of his skills and named him that, no?
I'm sure there are a lot of people who think that way,
but rumor has it that he was given the nickname of
"King of the Court" by the guys from Kitagawa First—
the King's teammates.
It means...
"Egocentric King."
"Oppressive Despot."
I'd only heard rumors about it at first,
but I was convinced after watching that match.
He got so oppressive that they had to sub him out of the final.
Kita First!
Kousen Academy                       Kitagawa First
All right!
Damn. They can block really high.
We've gotta shake them off somehow.
We need to attack much faster—
fast enough to be unblockable.
Don't worry about it.
Sorry.
Faster!
Give us a nice serve!
Right!
Yes!
What the hell's wrong with you?
Your sets are totally unreasonable!
What's the point if we can't spike them?!
All right! We only need one more point!
But we can't win unless we shake off their blocks!
Almost there, guys!
Is this the end?
Am I going to lose here?
Hell no!
I'm gonna go to nationals!
Move faster!
Jump higher!
Keep up with my sets if you wanna win!
It was the first set.
Our opponents were on set point.
And when I made my set...
there was nobody there to put it away.
We'd made many mistakes transitioning that day,
but what happened at the end wasn't a mistake.
It was a rejection.
A rally where they put their arms up and said, "We're not following you anymore."
Kageyama.
Sub out now.
That why you've stopped making quick sets?
Are you chickening out due to what happened in that final?
Hey, you've been running your mouth for a while now—
Tanaka.
If you make sets, but nobody jumps to hit them—
That's right.
The idea of making a set only to find that there's nobody there...
terrifies me.
But that was back in junior high, right?
So long as he sets for me,
I don't really care.
Breaking through your guard is a far more pressing issue!
We're gonna beat Tsukishima and join this team for real.
You'll get to play setter with your head held high,
and then you'll set for me.
Does anything else matter?
That kinda pure and straightforward shtick really gets on my nerves.
Your spirit won't make up for your lack of height.
If you think hard work trumps all else,
then you're sorely mistaken.
Got it.
Tanaka.
Gimme!
Bring it on!
Who should I set for?
Over here!
Hinata can't beat Tsukishima head-on yet.
Tanaka!
Kageyama!
There was... nobody there...
I'm here!
That was close.
I nearly whiffed that one.
It went out, though.
What was that for?!
But the ball did come to me!
Who cares about junior high?
I'll take whatever sets I can get.
And I'll be grateful for all of them!
I'll jump anywhere.
I'll spike any ball!
So...
set for me!
Haikyuu !!
I'm pretty sure Kageyama was about to set for Tanaka there.
But he still reacted instantly to Hinata's voice
and movement and made such an accurate set.
His foul mouth's been the only thing getting attention so far,
but he really is amazing!
You guys can run quick plays?!
"Quick plays"?
Fast attacks like the one you just did!
No way.
I've only ever spiked slow and looping sets.
But you just did it!
Besides, didn't you once spike a messed-up set from that beginner on your junior high team?
Stuff like that.
Oh, I don't remember how I did that.
But I'll spike any set that comes my way.
You hear me?
We've never practiced plays.
Running a quick one is impossible.
Did he just say "impossible"?
Does he even know what that word means?
You're being weird!
You're acting so timid it's giving me the creeps! Weirdo!
Oh, shut it.
This isn't like you, King.
Just you wait! I'm gonna break through your defenses!
There you go, getting all worked up again.
"Try and try until you succeed" sounds nice on paper,
but it doesn't always work like that.
Everyone has things they're just not cut out for.
And you're clearly not fit to be a spiker.
Maybe.
I mean, be it back in junior high or in this match,
I kept getting blocked no matter how much I jumped.
And I know that a volleyball player needs to be tall.
Doesn't matter how high you can jump.
It'll never make up for a massive difference in height.
Even so,
I ended up wanting to be like that!
So I don't care if I'm disadvantaged or not cut out for it.
I wanna fight using my own body.
I wanna keep winning...
and stay on the court as much as I can!
No way.
I still...
I still wanna stand on the court!
But you don't have the means to do so.
We're not talking psychology here.
Your feelings aren't gonna make up for your lack of height.
Though I guess it's a different story if you wanna be a libero.
Set for me!
Breaking through the wall that stands in the spiker's way...
is what a setter is for!
Wh-What is it, Kageyama?
Hey, that hurts!
Lemme go!
Calm down, Kageyama!
What are you—
Listen up.
If we can't break through, we'll just have to go around.
Use every last bit of your agility and reflexes to spike my sets.
Is that how you explain a quick attack?!
Gotcha.
Pull the other one! You didn't get a thing!
We'll just try it anyway!
What's gotten into you?
You were totally depressed just a minute ago.
I wasn't.
Pull the other one!
All right.
Give us a good serve!
Let's do this.
Considering his speed and reflexes,
he should be able to spike quick sets.
Okay, bring on the sets. Bring 'em on anywhere!
Give us a good serve, Tsukki!
We haven't even figured out the signs yet, but whatever.
Oh, so he's gonna make a set there.
Hinata.
Great. That serve's not as good as Mrs. Yoshida's.
Now I just gotta jump over here...
Huh? It's that fast?
What's wrong with you?!
Move faster—
Oh, look. There's the King's set.
As if it was ever gonna work right off the bat!
I'm not sure it ever will.
Yay, I touched it!
What are you, a fish?!
Man, I have no idea what the right timing is.
Dude, you have incredible reflexes! Be more like, "bam"! Wham!
Bam or wham? Pick one!
That's not the point!
Kageyama.
You're repeating what you did in junior high.
Uh, well...
Hinata's got reflexes, speed, and an amazing vertical.
If he can get used to quick plays...
Don't you think your sets are hindering his agility?
Hinata has neither volleyball skills nor experience.
Sugawara?
He's not like your talented junior high teammates.
But he's got great potential.
Me? A prodigy? No way!
He didn't call you one.
With your skills,
can't you take his unique, uh, talents and... well...
Uh...
Hang in there, Suga!
Can't you put them to good use?
I'm a setter too, so when I watched
that match last year, I was intimidated.
By your outstanding playmaking, ball control,
and most of all...
your vision and decision-making ability that let
you see right through your opponents' defense.
I don't have any of that.
That's not true, Suga—
Tanaka.
Let's hear him out.
You have the skills,
the motivation to win,
and above all, incredible vision.
There's no way you can't see
through your own teammates!
Put him to good use?
But how?!
But the ball did come to me!
I...
Y-Yeah?
I envy your athleticism.
What?
It pisses me off that you're letting it all go to waste.
Excuse me?
So I'm gonna put all of your abilities to good use.
What the?
Give me your top speed and your best jumps.
And I'll send the ball your way.
Send it my way?
What do you mean?
Just run as fast as you can to an area
they're not marking, jump as high as you can,
and swing your arm as hard as you can.
No need to keep an eye on my sets.
No need to care about what the ball's doing.
Say what?
I'll just swing and miss if I don't watch.
Maybe.
Hey!
But I still wanna try this.
Gotcha.
They're still up to something?
I wish they'd hurry up and figure out that nobody can hit the King's egocentric sets.
You can say that again.
What are they trying to do?
At the very least, there's no way Hinata can keep up with those sets right now.
Give us a good serve!
Kageyama/Hinata    Tsukishima/Yamaguchi
What amazing concentration...
Watch.
See through it!
Where are the blockers?
Where's the ball?
Where's the spiker?
What will he do next?
Where will he jump?
Where is the absolute peak of his jump?
This is it!
This is the position, the timing, and the angle!
Yeah!
It...
It hit my hand!
He's so melodramatic.
Hey...
Hinata had his eyes closed just now!
Um, what do you mean?
He kept his eyes closed from the moment he jumped to the moment he hit the ball.
That means Kageyama made a pinpoint set into
Hinata's palm when he wasn't even looking at the ball!
And he delivered it with perfect accuracy
at the exact moment Hinata swung his arm.
Awesome!
What was that just now?
The ball just hit my hand!
Hey!
Why did you have your eyes closed?!
You told me not to look at the ball.
I end up ball watching when my eyes are open, so I closed them.
I did say that, but...
But hey, we pulled it off.
What's the problem?
Yeah, we did, but who the hell
trusts another guy completely?!
I don't know what else to do right now!
You suck!
What have you been doing for the last three years?!
I can bring his vertical and his agility to life
What the hell was that, dude? It was amazing!
with my sets!
Good.
If Hinata can land his spikes, the markers will split up, which will make it easier for Tanaka to score too.
Yeah!
Great!
There's absolutely no camaraderie between us,
but know that I'll keep sending the ball your way.
Trust me and jump.
'Kay.
Now!
My bad.
Kageyama/Hinata    Tsukishima/Yamaguchi
Was that earlier one just a fluke?
His sets are definitely getting more accurate.
Really?
Yeah.
Here, Hinata.
Dammit.
Oh, thanks.
I set it too far from the net this time.
Ouch.
This is harder than I thought.
It's also a pain to keep track of everything that's happening on the court.
Are you all right?
Y-Yeah!
But it's so much fun!
The hell are you grinning for?
Screw you! That's the second time you hit my face!
I can't believe this.
That one earlier was just dumb luck.
Yet they keep trying it over and over.
Hinata'll probably keep jumping without looking at the ball.
You're not doing this on purpose, are you?
Yeah, it certainly is unbelievable.
You know we've gotta win this, right?
It's not that easy to trust someone completely.
Of course!
Especially not the guy you consider your greatest rival.
Damn, this just isn't working.
Still...
That sensation when I hit the ball
right in the sweet spot was amazing.
I just love how it feels!
One more time.
One more time, carefully...
I need to make a set that allows the
spiker to show the best of his ability.
I got this!
Nice receive!
I bet he's gonna mess up trying to set for that midget again.
We just need to mark Tanaka—
Get over here!
A wall...
Listen up.
If we can't break through...
...we'll just have to go around!
So what if I'm not as tall as the others?
I'll just jump one centimeter, one millimeter higher...
or be one second faster...
to the peak!
That way, for that one moment,
I'll be at the highest point on the court!
A massive, massive wall stands
in front of me, blocking my way.
I wonder what the view is like on the other side.
What does it look like?
The view from the summit—
it's something...
I'll never be able to see alone.
Yes!
If I tell you this story,
I wonder if I can explain to you
my feelings
and the distance between us
Standing on an empty field
I breathe out into the night air
Countless times I swore that I would change
I stumbled and fell a lot,
but I swore I would laugh at the end
and not let my tears go to waste
There are so many dreams that can definitely come true
I always sat somewhere, downcast, dejected, depressed,
but still I decided I would fight,
and not let all my frustration go to waste
This is our revenge
Next Episode Preview
Spiking with your eyes closed? Are you kidding me?
Unbelievable.
Things are getting crazy.
Keep setting for me!
Don't push your luck!
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
Episode Five:
A Wimp's Anxiety
"A Wimp's Anxiety."